today's video is brought to you by -
light be sure to stay until the end of
the video to learn how to get this
all-in-one password manager absolutely
free on your first device to save you a
bunch of time and make your digital life
safer in 1981 only 213 computers were
hooked to the Internet as the new year
begins an estimated two and a half
million computers will be on the network
serving as many as 20 million people
almost 2001 and the technologies that
bring us telephones TV and computers are
merging five years from now we're not
going to have distinct cable and
telephone industries there's going to be
one industry and there'll be companies
carrying quits little pieces of
information in the 90s the internet was
in its infancy in the decade before that
we were connected with things such as
Usenet and while time and technology has
progressed there is still one internet
mystery that proceeds all the rest if
you google the term internet mystery
you're likely just to click away from
this individual topic and this topic has
seen a wide coverage across many videos
and blogs it's regarded as the
Internet's oldest and weirdest mystery
and one of the first great puzzles on
the Internet
[Music]
the mystery or incident I'm referring to
is the Markovian parallax denigrates
[Music]
with a name like the Internet's earliest
mystery you would truly think that
people would have properly researched
this topic and while a select few have
much of what is out there is
misinformation normally a mystery like
this wouldn't be in my zone of criteria
but I think there's something that we
should take a look at here as it could
tell us a lot more about ourselves and
Internet mysteries as a whole to show
you what I'm talking about I want to
show you what you'll likely come across
if you were to research this topic
yourself to start our dive into the info
that exists on this topic I'd like to
start with this reddit post as I believe
it perfectly outlines much of the
information on this topic on a side note
the writing from this reddit thread is
to be originally credited from Atlas
obscura
what is the Markovian parallax denigrate
it's been called the Internet's oldest
and weirdest mystery and it all started
with a series of enigmatic early
internet posts from the mid 1990s the
meaning of which remains unsolved for
over 20 years
the Markovian parallax denigrated
messages date back to 1996 before the
Internet as we know it existed at a time
when the discussion system used that was
still in wide use operating like a
bulletin board or forum dusted a Usenet
allowed users to communicate by posting
chronologically ordered messages and not
unlike the forum's today it had a
problems with spam the first major
spamming incident in the history of the
Internet occurred in 1994 when a pair of
lawyers blasted thousands of users on
Usenet with unbidden ads for their
immigration law services but when the
mysterious Markovian parallax denigrate
messages began there was some good
reasons to wonder if there were
something more than spam around August
5th 1996 the date that belongs to one of
the only surviving examples of the
strange posts hundreds of odd messages
began sliding into discussions across
use that
they consisted of blocks of seemingly
nonsensical strings of words that read
like terrible slam poetry the only thing
they shared was an equally meaningless
subject line Markovian parallax
denigrate since many people at the time
assume that these messages were
gibberish most of the original posts
have since been lost but one original
post that survives thanks to Google's
archives reads the following I will show
the message here on screen now you can
pause the video if you'd like to read it
[Music]
with no easy explanation for their
origins or meaning the messages quickly
became fodder for a number of theories
as to their existence according to an
in-depth article from 2012 on The Daily
Dot the some Usenet denizens
hypothesized that the words were a kind
of secret code the indecipherable
messages were even likened to the
broadcasts of the enigmatic Cold War
number of stations yet despite multiple
attempts to crack or even find some kind
of cipher to date no one has ever been
able to detect any kind of hidden
meaning in the messages another theory
posited that the messages were a kind of
product of an early attempt at some kind
of thought the Markovian part of the
message name has been thought to relate
to a calculating process called a Markov
chain which has been used in programming
chatbots but if the messages were the
result of tinkering with some kind of
emergent conversation the original
programmer has never been identified
kevin morris the author of the daily dot
article proposes in his piece that the
messages were the work of a
controversial alleged spy a susan
Lindauer whose name appears in the from
line of the remaining archived message
while Morris's article goes into great
depth about lindau as possible
connections to the Markovian parallax
denigrate he also notes that when he
contacted her for the piece she denied
any involvement in the creation of the
messages it's been over two decades
since the Markovian parallax then a
great post hit Usenet and despite all
theories in paranoid guesswork the
mystery is no closer to being solved now
than it was in the mid-1990s at this
point it seemed unlikely that anyone is
going to crack the code if there even is
one but ultimately their enduring
mystery is probably more intriguing than
any other concrete answer could ever be
to summarize this narrative it
essentially surmises that due to the
uncanny nature of the messages being
sent and their volume and their alleged
connection to a spy would hint at
further significance as you can tell by
the post reread there's been some
details glossed over and if you take a
look at almost all past info on this
topic almost every single reference to
this mystery since 2012 cites Kevin
Morris's article from The Daily Dot but
what's funny is that Kevin Morris never
once alleges that she could be behind it
and in fact he debunks his own fact in
his own article and it's not just
debunked because she claims she wasn't
involved the main piece of evidence that
ties her to this mystery dating back to
1996 is the usage of her email in the
supposed big event on Usenet - which
supposedly only one message from her
still exists today but at the end of the
article he showed that this belonged to
a college student in Wisconsin now you
might be wondering why I'm focusing on
this article from 2012 so much if this
mystery goes back to 1996 and the reason
being is that this one piece of writing
single-handedly popularized this
internet mystery while the actual origin
of this topic on the Internet begins
with a Wikipedia page in July of 2004
which is three months after Susan's name
was in headline news it never saw much
attention a user on Wikipedia by the
name of lazarus 666 reasoned that
because if she was accused of being a
spy someone with a cryptographic
interest might want to check them out
this is a far cry from the Wikipedia
page we have today in which this is
cited as the internet's oldest mystery
and one of the first great puzzles on
the internet something to note is that
even in 2005 it was cited that there was
no compelling evidence that Susan had
anything to do with this series of
Usenet posts and the page was nominated
for deletion in 2009 this Daily Dot
article was published in November of
2012 and at the time a Wikipedia Zone
article was deleted
- which Kevin would write in his article
shortly after Lindh hours connection -
all of this was dug up the Wikipedia
page disappeared you needn't be a
conspiracy nut to connect the dots to
think something fishy was going on this
entire thing reads like conspiracy
satire but why after eight years has
this article been cited incorrectly
despite the fact that Kevin debunked
this entire connection anyways the
answer lies in people's inability to
read past a headline he spends the first
90% of the article changing details to
make the entire mystery seem bigger than
it is but the purpose of this is to
knock it down later as from the very
beginning he cites it as a tale of two
Susan Lind hours but in this 3,000 plus
word article he doesn't reveal until the
very end that the email has nothing to
do with her it's an article meant to
entertain a conspiracy theory but
ultimately decides in the most
reasonable conclusion and that it was
spam now if you look at other content
regarding this topic you'll understand
how he came up with the narrative from
earlier okay Kevin Morris the author of
The Daily Dot article proposes in his
piece that the messages were the work of
a controversial alleged spy Susan
Lindauer whose name appears in the front
line of the remaining archived message
while Morris's article goes into great
depth about Linda as possible
connections to the Markovian parallax
denigrate he also notes that when he
contacted her for the piece she denied
any involvement with the creation of the
messages oh he forgot to write that he
fully debunked the whole thing at the
end I guess this guy didn't read the
whole article Internet's oldest and
weirdest mystery why is that because in
spite of numerous experts that attempted
to decode the puzzles they all couldn't
quite properly figure them out some
people think the messages were left by
the government while others said
journalist and CIA has it
Susan Lindauer was behind them I guess
didn't read the whole article either
a string of words the people are still
trying to interpret decades later it
became associated with Susan Lindauer an
anti-war activist who many believe was
forwarded coded messages is this strange
assemblage of words encrypted government
information or just an early example of
nonsensical spam okay let me double
check this I must have misread it the
conspiracies about Linda are awfully
compelling the facts would fit also
neatly together - if only Susan Linda
are the one who was born in Alaska and
arrested 2004 actually sent the
Markovian parallax that a great message
or had any connection whatsoever
the girl who sent it would went to
Wisconsin pointed out that one of the
emails used for the post was Susan
underscore Lindauer Glendower is a 9/11
whistleblower and I would recommend that
you read the piece that Morris wrote for
the Daily Dot links article recommends
it didn't even read it what the [__] is
someone had to have read come on if
Linda Aras name was attached to the MPD
message did she write it not according
to her take good she told Morris via
email I've heard of this cyber
phenomenon but I am NOT the Susan
Lindauer who authored the code good I
wish to enlighten you I am baffled to SH
so how did her name get connected well
one theory suggests it was done by her
her enemies in an effort to discredit or
mr. wanted to what did anyone read the
know they put at the end yes I should
have read the whole art Kate good these
guys gonna go through the full article
right
[Music]
Just Breathe just read through the
article that's all you gonna do to
figure out that the student don't go
down the Susan Linda are back please
tell me this guy reads through the whole
article scroll down scroll down no no he
didn't read though it's most likely a
troll a big internet troll now the only
thing that would convince me otherwise
is the Susan Lindauer reference as the
only thing I that convinced me otherwise
if now let's actually take a trip to the
message board to find these messages you
have to go to Google Groups which is
Google's archive service for Usenet
search in the alt religion slash
Christian Boston - Church news group and
filtered by posts that were made on the
5th of August 1996
here we see all the messages to which
all of them have unique post titles
usernames fake emails and they were
posted at 12 a.m. the words Markovian
parallax denigrate have little to no
significance whatsoever this topic has
seen a lot of coverage from media in the
sad matter of fact is that only one
article from cypher mysteries.com
actually decided to dedicate more than
one minute on research and his site
doesn't even have ads on it in a
frequency analysis of the spam posts the
words thin boo and Cyndi appeared the
most among the spam and they concluded
the spam bot followed a standard
distribution of words this was obviously
a spam bot but to say this hit every
single news group on the state is a
complete farce for good measure
I checked many of the popular news
groups and none of them had this spam if
we change the date on our filters to
August 7th of two days later we can
actually see the aftermath of the spam
[Music]
in a post titled newsgroups hit by
random vertical spam Katherine would
write I have personally verified that
the following news groups have been hit
by a current random text vertical spam
no moderated news groups have been hit
so far and I have warned the moderator
of society that religion thought
Christian so he is on a lookout
none of the alt Christ net or Christ net
hierarchy have been hit in several
regional religion Christian news groups
have also been spared I have also been
male bombed by this idiot I'm not sure
how heavily since after the first couple
of messages appeared I told proc mail to
send them to dev slash null and inform
my ISP about this
I kept copies of the first two mail bomb
messages so if someone needs them to
track the idiots down let me know here
in this post we see that only seven news
groups were spammed and what's
interesting if you take a look at the
news groups that were hit all of them
were Christian news groups except for
the net abuse news group perhaps the
best part of this story is that someone
already tried to update the Wikipedia
with this information and their account
and additions were deleted the reasoning
for such a deletion no published or
reliable sources
the Internet's oldest and weirdest
mystery and one of the first rate
puzzles of the Internet is someone
trolling a Christian group it wasn't
even a Markov bot as a lot of you like
to say maybe the real Markovian parallax
denigrate were the friends we made along
the way and speaking of making new
friends which is something I rarely do -
Lane has easily become my best friend in
managing my digital life - Lane is a
password manager and privacy solution
that takes all the guesswork out of
managing your online accounts and
protecting your information all you need
is one master password and you're golden
across all your devices - Lane autofills
login information in the click of a
button to save you time with every
single login if you're like me and you
prefer shopping online because you hate
leaving the house - Lane will also save
you time Auto filling with that info -
not only will this new friend save you
time but - Lane also helps to protect
all your information by helping create
strong passwords for each of your
accounts
and if at any point one of your accounts
is compromised you'll receive an alert
so you can protect your account in just
a few clicks when it comes to protecting
your personal info dash lines dark web
monitoring will notify you if at any
point any of your details are found
leaked on the dark web now to top all
that off a dash lanes full package also
includes a VPN as you can browse the web
securely and view region-locked content
there is a reason - Lane has over 11
million users so instead of using
multiple solutions go to - link comm
slash social to meet your new best
friend and for the first 500 users who
upgrade to dash Lane premium be sure to
use the promo code social as the folks
at dash Lane have been kind enough to
offer viewers of this channel 25% off
thanks again to dash lane for sponsoring
this video now to wrap this video up I
should say with something like this it
highlights how many of the internet
mysteries you see today are brought into
existence this entire subject was
basically nothing until someone revived
it with a sensational twist on things
what starts off as a simple coincidence
from one person over the years spirals
into a spooky narrative that's meant to
entertain I'm sure you guys can think of
another topic that might fit the same
criteria well I'd love to hear you guys
has take on things I'd say that the
moral of the story is that we may like
asking questions more than we like
getting answers this is barely sociable
I have a good night